Carole Namowicz: School isn't here yet.
Carole Namowicz: But
Carole Namowicz: I see that she is
Carole Namowicz: There in a
Carole Namowicz: In a separate Jude cat. She's probably joining us in just a second here again I accidentally joined the main zoom channel.
Carole Namowicz: That we have
Carole Namowicz: For this summer first and then realize, oh, when when our separate one today so
Carole Namowicz: We'll give her a minute or two to do that. But in the meantime, I'm hi
Carole Namowicz: I'm Carolyn mo. It's and
Carole Namowicz: This is obviously a chemistry unit.
Carole Namowicz: And
Carole Namowicz: If you don't mind.
Jamie Lee - Staff: If you guys
Carole Namowicz: Wouldn't mind introducing yourselves, or you can wait for Katie It's totally up to you.
Carole Namowicz: We can wait for Katie, that's cool.
Carole Namowicz: Um,
John Moore: I think I need to view your video before doing anything else.
Carole Namowicz: Yeah, please.
Carole Namowicz: If you haven't done that yet. By all means, take a couple minutes to go ahead and do that. Just to give you sort of the preview.
Carole Namowicz: So Joel Where are you are you from Northwestern or
So,
Joel Beier: Complicated my I am working with Sally's former advisor at the University of Wisconsin.
Joel Beier: However, my wife is a resident at Northwestern and campus down here in Chicago, so
Okay.
Joel Beier: Yeah, lots of connections and in both locations. And so right. Right now we're in Chicago, since we're remote in Madison.
Carole Namowicz: Actually
Joel Beier: It's nice. Yeah.
Carole Namowicz: All right. And so, um, are you like researching right now then, or
Joel Beier: Yeah, so I am in my second year.
Joel Beier: Preparing to begin my second year at the University of Wisconsin.
Joel Beier: Okay. For that, I was a high school chemistry teacher for five years.
Joel Beier: Gotcha started down in Phoenix, and then spent four years in northeast Indiana and now we're here.
Carole Namowicz: Okay, very good.
Joel Beier: Yeah, actually I recognize they like the soda can, because that's one that I did.
Carole Namowicz: Oh yeah, we've actually been doing
Carole Namowicz: This year is going to be a little different.
Carole Namowicz: Obviously, um, and in fact CPS came out with this goofy crazy hybrid plan.
Carole Namowicz: What, to be frank, what we as teachers are all planning this year is we're planning remotes because even if we're forced to be in a classroom.
Carole Namowicz: It's going to be six feet apart masks on you on your computer me on mine. I'm not handing you papers, we're not using any materials. Everything is going to be a video like
Carole Namowicz: Yeah, it is what it is.
Joel Beier: So when I first saw before getting into
Carole Namowicz: The road. That's all right. I mean, we're waiting for WAITING FOR JOHN to come back and go
Joel Beier: Well, when I first saw the plan. I, I felt bad for everybody who is working because you're gonna have to come up with a plan for the kids who are online and a plan for the kids are in person.
Carole Namowicz: Yes. Um, so, again, I think that
Carole Namowicz: In mind. Most of us are just going with
Carole Namowicz: Everything's online.
Joel Beier: That's fair.
Carole Namowicz: Well, it's fair. And it's also like, I don't want to be taking home giant stacks of papers into my own home and like you know the the transfer of simple materials from home to school and back again.
Carole Namowicz: Not, not a good idea. And so, yeah. Um, but yeah. So essentially the cam crush thing.
Carole Namowicz: We've been doing it for a number of years as a major lab.
Carole Namowicz: Oh, yeah. Oh, what, what we've done is over the past, I want to say at least the last four or five years.
Carole Namowicz: We've been doing it as a lab where we introduce it and then students go through and decide variables that they're going to possibly change and we spend a good two weeks.
Carole Namowicz: Allowing them to really take lots and lots and lots of trials. Um, so that they can get a really good set of data and they can they can recognize outliers and we go through uncertainty and all that kind of thing. Um,
Carole Namowicz: And so there's that aspect, but then there's also the aspect of obviously then we have them you know formatting presenting their data in graphical form.
Carole Namowicz: Where they're going to look to determine the
Carole Namowicz: The independent variable we wind up, allowing them to either choose a different can size we collect cans.
Carole Namowicz: All your low yeah possible. Um, but they choose different can size or different month time in a hot plate different model water in the thing are different.
Carole Namowicz: Like temp of the bucket. And then the dependent variable is the percent crush.
Carole Namowicz: So they spend all this time collecting this data and you know after they get the hang of crushing it. Then they can start to see when they do have outliers. When because since they're doing multiple trials for a set data point, um,
Carole Namowicz: And something this year was and it looks like John's popping back so so we can talk about this, um,
Carole Namowicz: Oh wait, won't see him. Hi john
Hi.
Carole Namowicz: I'm so I'm Carol again. And did you get, you got a chance to see the video we were actually just talking about the Candy Crush thing.
Right.
Carole Namowicz: Um, and if you don't mind me stopping and asking, Are you from Northwestern or what's your affiliation here.
John Moore: No, I mean your University of Wisconsin Madison.
Carole Namowicz: Okay.
John Moore: So Sally. Sally did some things up here before then, and northwestern so
Carole Namowicz: Very good. Um, so, essentially, I was just explaining to Joel that we have
Carole Namowicz: The can crush is a big, it's our big first lab. So essentially gas laws is our big first unit of the year.
Carole Namowicz: We use it as a jumping off point for students to start to see micro to macro. That's a big connection. We're always making throughout the year and chemistry.
Carole Namowicz: Is what's happening on microscopic scale that is causing our observations on the macroscopic scale. So we want them to see that connection right away so that throughout the year, we can keep making that jump back and forth.
Carole Namowicz: Um, so obviously these these simulations help a great deal with that we do something on the macroscopic scale to start off with like the Candy Crush and we immediately then go to okay what's happening on the microscopic scale that made that happen.
Carole Namowicz: So that's really where these
Carole Namowicz: Were the simulations individually, and then the can cross simulation. What I was explaining Joel is this is usually major lab that we do and we're not gonna be able to do it this year at least
Carole Namowicz: Not in person, not as intended. So what we met and then Jamie's been working on is creating this simulation of the can crush that then has old zoom in on
Carole Namowicz: And it's just in the it's in the very early stages. Right now, we walked through it yesterday and talk through all the changes that need to be made, but really it's um
Carole Namowicz: We're going to use that so that students still can collect can still collect data.
Carole Namowicz: Can still, you know, organize the data graph the data, all the things that we would want them to do with the real experiments, but this year. They're going to have to use the simulation in order to do that.
Carole Namowicz: Um, but another reason we thought this simulation would be really helpful is when students do do this lab is the real thing.
Carole Namowicz: They get really confused about what actually is happening on a microscopic scale in order to explain it. We get lots of pirated answers from the internet because it's all over the internet these days as far as what's happening with the can and all that, but
Carole Namowicz: Do they actually understand it. Um, so we think that even hopefully after everything's okay and who's vaccinated and we go back
Carole Namowicz: Um, that the simulation will be really helpful for students that did the actual experiment real life.
Carole Namowicz: To compare and contrast it with the simulation to see if their data is good or not, like, if their data is actually what should have happened.
Carole Namowicz: And there'll be able to look at the little zoom in feature to see what the particles are doing at that moment, to see if they really do understand what happened or not. So that's really a big A big piece of our units, um,
Carole Namowicz: So I'm going to stop talking and let you guys ask some questions since you've seen the videos and such.
John Moore: I had one question you had them working on a simulation and that they were building their own simulation. The students as ever.
John Moore: Yes. So are they going to simulate what happens in the can crush or
Carole Namowicz: Not yet, it's a it's a more simplified, it's a more simplified model than that. So the, the overall gist of our unit is we show them the can crush it just to get them thinking about it. It's our phenomenon. Then from there, we start with
Carole Namowicz: I'm simply temperature. So then we're going to do like a food coloring and hot water cold water things so that they can see particles move faster hot slow trickle. Great.
Carole Namowicz: From there we go to volume and temperature. And then we introduce pressure and then through all these stages.
Carole Namowicz: They'll begin to see the different gas variables to pressure volume temperature number of particles.
Carole Namowicz: And they'll also be able to see the relationships between all of those variables when you hold the others constant. So we're going to take all those relationships.
Carole Namowicz: And throughout this they'll be seeing what the gas particles are supposed to be looking like right
Carole Namowicz: After they have all that under their belts, we move on to the simulation that you're referring to, which is this net tango.
Carole Namowicz: Where the students are using blocks of code to build the gas movement. So it's not yet meant to be the can crush. It's simply getting them to come up with a postulates of kinetic molecular theory on their own.
Carole Namowicz: So we want them based on what they've seen in a simulation gas particles are doing to step back, think about
Carole Namowicz: Those simulations as a computer programmer and give us the rules for particle movement like what are the rules. If you were a computer programmer. What did you tell those particles to do on the screen to make them do that and really just
Carole Namowicz: tearing it down, who most basic level, because what we find is students, students will skip over the obvious they never say
Carole Namowicz: Particles must move them straight lines like it's pulling teeth to get them to come up with that because they've already run past that. So we have to stop them.
Carole Namowicz: And be like, hold on. And usually what I do in the classroom, which is
Carole Namowicz: You know it's going to be a little bit of a challenge this year, but typically what I do in the classroom is when they skip that part.
Carole Namowicz: I do the I'm the gas particle and I start running around in circles and bumping into tables and saying, Tell me how to move, tell me how to move. I'm a gas particle on the gas particle, until finally, a student will go, you have to walk in a straight line. Okay, there you go.
John Moore: There, we don't have any drunk good gas.
Particle
Carole Namowicz: Right, but they don't they don't think about
Carole Namowicz: Like, oh, that's how gas particle moves. It's like so.
John Moore: I'm trying to understand a little more about the
Carole Namowicz: Simulation
John Moore: You said there are these blocks of code that
John Moore: Like the one block is sort of saying the particle is to move in a straight line or
Carole Namowicz: Yes, in fact, hold on. I'm gonna pull it up. I can pull up the simulation. Give me one moment, then I can share the screen with you to show you what this looks like.
Carole Namowicz: It's got to get to the right lesson here.
One more. Here we go.
Carole Namowicz: You and
Carole Namowicz: Alright share screen.
Carole Namowicz: All right. Can we see this
Carole Namowicz: Yes. Okay, great. Alright, so this is the net logo, the net logo and essentially, it starts off the blocks of code are as you see down here at the bottom.
Carole Namowicz: Where it says at go each particle moves. And then there's a little drop down menu and then it says if it touches the wall and then there's gonna be another little drop down menu. So if I press set up right now and go what you see right now is
Carole Namowicz: The particles are moving a radically and if they touch a wall, they will bounce back like a basketball. Now notice we're missing some code here. And if you watch the two particles go close to each other. You see that, what did they do.
Carole Namowicz: They actually are going across each other. Do you notice that that's because in the code. We don't yet have how the particles should interact when they
Carole Namowicz: collide with each other yet. So right now what we're expecting students to do and working with this is, again, they've seen simulations where they've seen how the particles are supposed to be moving. So how are they going to make this code look like that.
Carole Namowicz: So one of the first things they have to do erratic should be straight. As soon as they change something down here in the bottom. They need to re compile
Carole Namowicz: So now we're compiling. Now you see that the particles are moving in straight lines. That one's not moving at the moment, um,
Carole Namowicz: But we also don't have coded. What's going to happen when each particle touches another particle. So if something touches and other particle, what should it do so we're expecting them to go through this process of and I'm going to re compile again.
Carole Namowicz: We're expecting them to go through this process.
Carole Namowicz: Sorry, I should have said set up and go again. There we go. So right now we have
Carole Namowicz: Code for what happens when they hit the wall. What happens when they hit each other, but we have this thing where it says bounces like a basketball.
Carole Namowicz: And what you'll notice over time is this setting is actually meant
Carole Namowicz: For the balls themselves to sort of lose kinetic energy or overall energy over time, which is not what gas particles in a closed container should be doing.
Carole Namowicz: So one of the final changes we're expecting them to make is to then go ahead and go through here and shoes. OKAY. HOW IS, HOW ARE THE BALLS hitting each other and like a bill a billiard ball.
Carole Namowicz: Will cause them to
Whoops.
Carole Namowicz: Really move as they should. And we're going to need to change both of these to say as a billiard ball and as soon as students figure that one out. Um, then the particles should be moving
Carole Namowicz: Like they should. And it's really, it's the billiard ball is meant to represent elastic collisions. Um, so that's what we're seeing. Finally, because students are able to articulate that
Carole Namowicz: When they look through when they see a simulation and they see two particles hitting each other we do go through the process of discussing okay if we have this one.
Carole Namowicz: I'm moving and this one's moving a certain speed that's max into each other. Do they both
Carole Namowicz: You know, when they bounce off to they both wind up going at identical speeds or the speed, they're traveling at before and the students do realize
Carole Namowicz: No, not necessarily. But overall, the energy is completely transferred and the energy is conserved. So we go through that concept.
Carole Namowicz: With this idea of the billiard ball.
Carole Namowicz: And all those students don't play billiards they all do have like little pool. You know, there's pool on their phone, you know, I'm talking about like they think they do that a lot. So
Carole Namowicz: As soon as you say when they asked billiard ball and you go, you know, like pool on your phone and then they'll go oh yeah so they know what that is.
Carole Namowicz: Um, and that makes sense to them because they've played that and and so they can apply that here and make sense of it to get to here.
Carole Namowicz: I'm obviously I ran through it quickly, students will take a considerably longer time to get there. And we also want them to really help each other.
Carole Namowicz: With the code again virtually or remote or whatever is going to happen this year we're still trying to figure out how this is going to work. Um, because obviously a lot of group work is going to be lost. I'm is okay if I
Carole Namowicz: Had done
John Moore: Completely out of it, but I have no idea what pool on the phone looks like.
Carole Namowicz: Oh, no.
Carole Namowicz: It's really in their phone with the
John Moore: Balls never stop and pull on the phone.
Carole Namowicz: They don't stay really. I mean, they know they do, they do stop but it's meant to be like the phone itself is usually just like the flat billiards table. So the whole thing is green. And then they just move their finger around to like shoot the cue ball at something
John Moore: Yeah, so I'm still I'm a little concerned about the analogy because the billiard balls, all these energy to
Carole Namowicz: Do
Carole Namowicz: They do.
John Moore: They have the same potential energy gravitational anyway kinetic energy goes away. So
Carole Namowicz: Not going to argue that point at all. Essentially, this the the notion of saying how it moves and comparing it to a ball.
Carole Namowicz: And this is something that the CT stem group was discussing many years ago. I've been. I've been working with them. Now, for this is my fourth summer.
Carole Namowicz: And not last summer, but the summer before that we were sitting in a room and they really we really just started to use this
Carole Namowicz: They were starting to develop net tango. And we talked about. Wouldn't it be great have something like this for looking at K empty.
Carole Namowicz: And energy and how energy is transferred and one of the issues is if you make the wording with the ball bouncing back to I don't want to say to science. See, but we had to make
Carole Namowicz: It approachable somehow for students to be able to feel like they knew what these little drop downs meant
Carole Namowicz: Um, so yes billiard balls, obviously, do you know some some energy would wind up being gone because the friction. I mean,
Carole Namowicz: You know, not gone but friction would be at play here as would gravity. And so, things of that nature would have an effect and they don't in the simulation.
Carole Namowicz: So that's not a perfect thing, but it's the best analogy, when we were talking about balls for what that would look like.
Carole Namowicz: Um, so their, their choices here are simply football, basketball billiard ball. There's another version.
Carole Namowicz: On the CT stem site where there's a balloon, but we actually thought balloon and basketball were very similar. So we removed balloon from our version of that to try and get kids as close to this idea as possible.
John Moore: Did you follow up on that. Then, as to the differences between the the simulation and
Carole Namowicz: Absolutely. And in fact, I'm. This is one I think we have this question here on the next page yet.
Carole Namowicz: Think we just asked them about the blocks here. And in fact, I don't think we have it in this particular lesson. But this is one of those questions that we're always asking students when they're working with a simulation.
Carole Namowicz: We will ask them to compare and contrast it to the real world. What are the advantages. What are the advantages of the simulation over the real world. What are the advantages of the real world over the simulation.
Carole Namowicz: What things that exist in the real world. We're not present in the simulation because they never completely you know they're not the same. And that's intentional because we want the simulation to show things
Carole Namowicz: That obviously we can't see, but it also is not going to act exactly as the real world would act we've we've removed certain things for our own interests to try and get at the you know the end goal for whatever particular lesson that we're in.
John Moore: Right, okay. And the, the simulation tool that you're using.
John Moore: Where did that come from.
Carole Namowicz: This, this particular on net tango.
Carole Namowicz: Yes, this was developed by the CT stem group. And I want to say about two or three years ago. So net logo in and of itself was was written by Yuri wilensky I don't know however many years ago.
John Moore: I guess my
John Moore: My curiosity was about whether it's available to other people or
Carole Namowicz: Oh yes, absolutely.
Carole Namowicz: Yes, it is. Um, and, in fact, it's
Carole Namowicz: Not only is it available to other people. But there's there's more versions of this than just fix this key empty version. So there is a published, there's
Carole Namowicz: Within the the connected chemistry on the CT style site and hold on, I can go there. Um, so
John Moore: You don't have to show me. I just, I was just curious as to
Carole Namowicz: Right here, so
John Moore: I'm sort of monopolizing the conversation.
John Moore: I know if Joe wants to get a word in edgewise.
Carole Namowicz: By all means.
Joel Beier: I'm enjoying listening to both of you described.
Joel Beier: Each of these, but I guess one of my questions that I had was, in what ways do you plan on using
Joel Beier: These simulations in the classrooms. When I first saw the structure of the prior page I thought of it as a great for lack of a better term, I'll say conversation piece a way to start the class and then dig into to John's point some of the deeper
Joel Beier: Concepts and was and I guess I was just curious if you've put any thought into the ways that you plan on integrating this into the classroom.
Carole Namowicz: Yeah, absolutely. Um, so that net logo in particular is actually we don't do that as the start of class, um, it's
Carole Namowicz: For it. This is a sophomore level class and for many students this type of a thing just to be shown the code and told go would be really overwhelming.
Carole Namowicz: Be spend for that particular lesson, we will spend a little bit of time just looking at, we actually have the fence simulation.
Carole Namowicz: A gas. The gas properties one we show them that one initially just so they see the particles bouncing around.
Carole Namowicz: We asked them to watch the particles that are bouncing around and then not on computer but usually we would do this like on you know some
Carole Namowicz: Large posts or something. Obviously. Again, not this year but um we have them come up with just on paper. What are the rules for political movement.
Carole Namowicz: Write out all your rules for political movement. And so we have them do that on paper first
Carole Namowicz: And then they'll think through it with their table groups and you know make comments on each other's really to sort of see what everybody else is thinking
Carole Namowicz: And then we throw them into the net tango, where they have to do the programming aspects. So
Carole Namowicz: By the time they get to the programming aspect, they should already have a really good sense of what they're expecting the particles to look like when they're moving around.
Carole Namowicz: So, so that way, it's not so overwhelming. We want them to already have that clear sense of I want the particles to do this. I want the particles. To do this, I want to do this.
Carole Namowicz: So that the the the coating seems more approachable. And that's, again, obviously also the reason for the blocks, rather than just sending them into the logo language, um,
Carole Namowicz: So we do that other simulations. There's always an end goal, where they will be, you know, taking data, um,
Carole Namowicz: One of the first lessons we have I mentioned that we start off with the can crush and then we move from there and just the
Carole Namowicz: food coloring things so they can see the temperature relationship. And then after that, we'll move into volume and temperature. Okay. So how does temperature effect volume. Here's another place will, we will be using a simple simulation.
Carole Namowicz: So that students can see the direct effect that temperature will have on volume holding other variables constant
Carole Namowicz: And we'll ask them to acquire data from a simulation and it will be numerical data and then they'll be asked to grab that data and we're going to be utilizing Kodak
Carole Namowicz: Um, within that lesson so that the graph will essentially a pure for them. Um, we would typically this year. Again, I keep saying this year. This year, this year, but
Carole Namowicz: We've had to change a lot of things we're taking out some inquiry. We're being more direct with certain things where we wouldn't be as direct
Carole Namowicz: We're also being a little bit more hand holding with
Carole Namowicz: Graphical type things because we want to make sure that all the students on their screen are actually going to have a direct relationship of temperature versus volume on their screen when they're done.
Carole Namowicz: So the code app interface is going to be integrated with the net logo simulation that woman is adjusting for us.
Carole Namowicz: And the graph itself when they're collecting the data. It's just going to up here, we're not really having them make it. It's just kind of going to appear for them at this point.
Carole Namowicz: But because this is the first unit of the year. We need to get out the idea of what does a direct relationship look like graphically.
Carole Namowicz: What does an indirect relationships look like graphically so that they have those pieces to take with them throughout the entire year and chemistry because we'll keep coming back to that when we're looking at data.
Carole Namowicz: Will ask them, What's the relationship here all the time. And we'll refer back to, you know, the last unit data sets as examples of those things.
John Moore: So I had another question about the can crush itself.
John Moore: Is there any do explore any variables related so they can crush.
John Moore: Unless you had ice water.
John Moore: But I mean, you could probably even do that.
John Moore: With videos this year, again, getting back to this year.
John Moore: I wonder what you actually did when when you were doing it typically
Carole Namowicz: Typically, first I want to preface this by saying we've taken out layers of
Carole Namowicz: We've taken up from higher order thinking this year. Usually this entire unit is based around a gas tanker imploding.
Carole Namowicz: So it's like a train gas tanker imploding. And then the can is like a parallel to it because they're basically doing the same thing and we walked through that.
Carole Namowicz: We took out that extra layer. This year, because again, having kids have to make those parallels when we're not going to be in class to walk them through it and do everything together.
Carole Namowicz: We just took it out. So we went straight up with can crush, but
Carole Namowicz: They will be manipulating it um what they usually do every year. Is this is our big lab and we take like a good two weeks, and I'm going to stop sharing the screen if that's okay with you guys so I can see everybody better um
Carole Namowicz: What we usually do is this is our big lab, we will demo it for them and then ask them to come up with. Well, what are the different variables that we could manipulate here. We let them come up with a million on, you know, we'll write them all on the board and they come up with a good
Carole Namowicz: Crazy variables we could fill it with maple syrup. Okay, fine. Um, but then we narrow it down to
Carole Namowicz: We can change the size of the can. Because, do we have different size cans. Yes, we do. I mentioned to Joel earlier that we literally save cans for an entire year, every year, so that we have cans for this lab.
Carole Namowicz: So we have the big Tall Boys regular sized cans and then the little mini eight ounce ones we have all those readily available.
Carole Namowicz: We also will allow them to change the amount of water. They put inside the can.
Carole Namowicz: We will allow them to change the amount of time they leave the can, on the hot plate.
Carole Namowicz: And finally we will allow them to change the temperature of the ice bucket. So it can be, you know, hot water ice water room temperature water. We're limited with exact temperatures, um, because although we have obviously we have thermometers and temperature sensors.
Carole Namowicz: maintaining an exact temperature, not going to happen. But at least we can say, you know, hot room temperature cold and then they can give us the temperature seized
Carole Namowicz: So they will choose one of these variables as a table group and then manipulate it everybody's dependent variable is identical everyone's dependent variable is going to be percent crush.
Carole Namowicz: And we show them what that means, because essentially we have them.
Carole Namowicz: We have them fill the can determine the volume to start with. They poured into a you know a gigantic graduated cylinder to find the starting volume. And then after the crush the can then they find the final volume.
Carole Namowicz: And then they do a subtraction and division and we give them a formula for that so they don't get confused, but they ultimately determine percent crush for each variable.
Carole Namowicz: They should be finding that the size of the can really doesn't make any difference.
Carole Namowicz: Because if you're doing a percentage of a crush, not just how much it crushed it really doesn't make any difference.
Carole Namowicz: The amount of time on a hot plate should make a difference. The amount of water in the can should make a difference. And then finally, the amount of the temperature of the bucket also should make a difference. Um,
Carole Namowicz: We have them do an ideal crush, if you will, we give them the parameters for that. There's exactly 10 mils of water that goes in the can.
Carole Namowicz: And they put it on the hot plate and as soon as the steam comes out, we tell them to count to 20 seconds and they will also have a stopwatch there so that they know exactly how long it's been sitting on the can.
Carole Namowicz: And then we tell them to use that magic number, whatever it was, for their hot plate as their control. Um, from then on.
Carole Namowicz: They will also
Carole Namowicz: Then they also have to use the standard size, can they will also have to use the standard size can for this particular
Carole Namowicz: For this trial sort of set all their parameters as their controls and then we spend a good like two weeks, letting them take trial trial upon trial on trial because we use this lab as
Carole Namowicz: A means of looking at uncertainty and looking at outliers and their data. And when they understand what an outlier is we say okay
Carole Namowicz: Take another take another trial. And again, it's, it's a lot of cans, so we make sure that we have enough cans to do this.
Carole Namowicz: But because we couldn't do this this year. That's where we met Jamie myself and Katie came up with the idea of, let's do a simulation for this this year so they can still do the lab.
Carole Namowicz: And they'll still be able to take data, we intend to add percent crush numbers with it, depending upon the parameters that they set and we have enough
Carole Namowicz: Old lab reports that we can pull data so that we can set that we can set the simulation with those numbers, um,
Carole Namowicz: But we also see this as being really great tool. After covert we're hoping that students will be able to see what's happening within their cans throughout the experiments.
Carole Namowicz: You know, when they couldn't zoom in and see it in the simulation. Now, there'll be able to, so it'll be an after they do their experiment type thing. Then we'll give them the simulation and say, okay, go check your data.
Carole Namowicz: First, see if your data matches up with the simulation we have here. So, you know, if it's good or not, but also if you were confused about what was happening on a microscopic level.
Carole Namowicz: This simulation will help you. You're going to see what's happening in the can to begin with what's happening in the can is it heats up.
Carole Namowicz: What's happening in the can. After we flip it over into the ice bucket. So there'll be able to see that.
Carole Namowicz: And I think that, that'll really help their understanding because they'll be able to connect it piece by piece to see why the can crushes on so that's why we're really hoping that this simulation is not just useful for this year but well beyond this year.
John Moore: Okay, great. Thank you.
John Moore: No problem. Um,
John Moore: My directions from Sally were to send spend 25 minutes
John Moore: First to go somewhere else. Now,
Jamie Lee - Staff: Guys are free to look
Jamie Lee - Staff: Around rooms. Yeah.
John Moore: Okay, fine. I read the directions and
John Moore: So,
John Moore: There were supposed to go to another one of these are not
Carole Namowicz: No, please, by all means, jump to another one.
Jamie Lee - Staff: Okay. All the links are in the pilot for the other so
John Moore: I will go back and do that. Thanks for sending the URL you kidding me.
Jamie Lee - Staff: Yeah, no problem for the tango. Yeah.
John Moore: I mean, leave this meeting and try another one. This is really interesting.
Joel Beier: And I did not have instructions to leave so
Carole Namowicz: I
Joel Beier: Have a no. But I do have a question.
Joel Beier: Leading back to your experiment with the kiddos. And it sounds like they're all doing or all the groups are doing different experiments. How do you typically have them report their results.
Carole Namowicz: Um, so they are required to it's a lab report.
Carole Namowicz: Yeah, it's a huge lab report in terms of reporting their results they need to show us a minimum of nine trials in a data table.
Carole Namowicz: Because that we have them take at least three trials per so if you're changing the size of the can, small, medium, large, right, they have to do three trials each
Carole Namowicz: We tell them specifically to be looking out for outliers. So if you need to do more than nine trials, you're going to need to do an extra one, you know. So if you get a really goofy one. Do it again. And we get them used to that like
Carole Namowicz: It's science. Um, so then they take an average percent crush and we asked them, um,
Carole Namowicz: We asked them to
Carole Namowicz: Go to
Carole Namowicz: We ask them to then graph the data. So they graph the data where they have their independent variable, whatever it was on the X axis, obviously, and then percent crush shown on there why I'm and we make sure that they're independent variable is numerical
Carole Namowicz: Some kids will be like small, medium, large can. I'm like, guys, you took the volumes of those, like, give me the actual numbers. It's not small, medium and large. Same thing with like the temperatures, they'll say, you know, cold and room temperature and hot, they
Carole Namowicz: Put the numbers on there. Um, so this is our first chance to really stress this
Yeah.
Carole Namowicz: And what
Joel Beier: What do you have them share with each other through presentations or
Carole Namowicz: So what they do.
Carole Namowicz: For all lab reports we have a group of kids usually for kids will be doing the same lab and they will be sharing their data sharing their graphs with each other.
Carole Namowicz: So we expect from a lab table to get the same data tables.
Carole Namowicz: Graphs, but then we have them write a lab report and ultimately in a claim evidence reasoning format.
Carole Namowicz: Have to make a claim about whether, you know, did your independent variable dependent variable either have a you know a direct relationship, an inverse relationship in direct
Carole Namowicz: Or no relationship at all, which is really hard for kids to say no relationship we go heavy on that. And like look at a lot of graphs with no relationship.
Carole Namowicz: Before their lab report is due to get them comfortable saying that because some of them are just like, that's just mind blowing to say it didn't do anything.
Carole Namowicz: But they do that. And then they have to after they make that claim they have to support that using evidence and then they talk about
Carole Namowicz: Within the reasoning, they have to talk about what the particles were doing throughout and why and why this cause this we have, you know, a very detailed rubric, um,
Carole Namowicz: But what we do with that is students in the same group have to have a different evidence in a different reasoning we use turn it in calm. Where's to
Carole Namowicz: Mid all their lab reports, because that's where we get, like, no, like you guys did the lab together, but you didn't sit down and write the whole thing together so
Joel Beier: The exact same thing for beetham before. Yeah.
Carole Namowicz: Yes, and I mean we still get kids where it's like, literally, you know, word
Carole Namowicz: For word and the word for word. And then, you know, every two sentences. They changed the word using the thesaurus, and it's it's
Carole Namowicz: Yeah. Um, but it's the first lab report of the year. So if they're going to make that silly mistake. Now's the time so we can catch them so they don't do it again.
Carole Namowicz: I'm sure we can learn. Well, exactly. So we can learn will still get an F on this, but they they still have a chance to significantly reduce standards based grading. So even if they can
Carole Namowicz: Do this lab because they plagiarize or something. There's another lab anyway.
Carole Namowicz: So they'd be fine.
Carole Namowicz: Yeah, I'm as long as they learned their lesson and did what they were supposed to do.
Carole Namowicz: Um, so, um,
Carole Namowicz: They we don't have them present to each other. Um, it's a lab report, but we do allow like because it's their first lab report, we give them in class working time.
Carole Namowicz: Okay, not only like for us to be able to help make sure that they're doing their graphs correctly and ask lots of questions and stuff like that. Um, but when they're setting up their labs to that's when, as a teacher, I'm walking around.
Carole Namowicz: And making
Carole Namowicz: For like okay you know first tell me what your control settings were in terms of exactly how long did you leave it on the hot plate. What you manipulate. Because to get them to see that.
Carole Namowicz: They really have to be careful with their controls and you know if you left it on a hot plate for for one minute and 49 seconds and you're changing the temperature of the ice bucket you better leave it on the hot plate for one minute and 49 seconds. Every single stink and trial and
Carole Namowicz: They get that. But it takes some time.
Carole Namowicz: Very often kids have run through at least two or three trials before I get to them and go
Joel Beier: Whoa.
Carole Namowicz: I need to redo those and we we budget that time in there so that they
Carole Namowicz: Do them.
Carole Namowicz: So, you know, again, it's like we spend literally two weeks on this and we have
Carole Namowicz: We run in 100 minute blocks, two times
Carole Namowicz: So literally, like 400 minutes of working time where that is going from the demo of it to the students figuring out what their independent variable is going to be to actually just practicing the crusher can which takes a good half an hour in and of itself.
Carole Namowicz: To actually running all the trials, then doing new trials for any outliers. If they find them and then to actually sit down and start making graphs like we try to budget in that
Carole Namowicz: lab report working time so that any groups that really didn't screw up and need to do a bunch of extra trials can so you know flexibility.
Joel Beier: Yeah, that sounds wonderful.
Joel Beier: We love like a lot of fun. Yeah, and
Joel Beier: At the end of the day it's a fun activity well lab, it's, it's crushing it cans of fun activities and then to lab see them better.
Carole Namowicz: Yeah, no, it makes it so that they're having fun like for a good week because they're crushing cans. I mean, they are taking data, but they're having a great time.
Carole Namowicz: Yeah, so good.
Carole Namowicz: Wonderful. Yeah, it's a good time.
Good.
Joel Beier: Alright, I'm not so sure.
Joel Beier: What also, I get a message.
Carole Namowicz: From jumping to somewhere else. I mean,
Joel Beier: Yeah but i well i guess i part of me wants to stick around, so that we can shed. But then the other part is I don't know if I'm supposed to be anywhere else, or if you'd like to just have a break and before your next
Carole Namowicz: Oh, no.
Carole Namowicz: Free, feel free to go ahead and jump around.
Carole Namowicz: And i mean i
Carole Namowicz: I think i think i'm only on here for another 20 minutes or so. Anyway, so it's all good.
Carole Namowicz: I'm okay to another group. If you want to come back that's cool too.
Joel Beier: Yeah. Wonderful, thank you so much for sharing everything was great to talk to you and I enjoyed reminiscing
Joel Beier: Some nighttime.
Carole Namowicz: Yeah.
Joel Beier: And then Jamie that I've. This is the first we've met. So it was great to meet you and
Jamie Lee - Staff: Nice meeting you.
Joel Beier: Thank you for helping facilitate
Jamie Lee - Staff: No problem. And yeah, if you're interested in any of the tools we use. They're all available online net logo and
Joel Beier: tango code out is Shelly and shown. We were, we played with them briefly I think last fall back when we meet in person, but
Joel Beier: I have not dug into it quite yet. So I might play with that later.
Yeah.
Joel Beier: Yeah, thank you. Enjoy.
Carole Namowicz: Thank you.
Carole Namowicz: So do I just hang out and see if more people come
Jamie Lee - Staff: Exactly, yeah.
Carole Namowicz: And I don't know what happened to Katie, um,
Jamie Lee - Staff: Yeah, I've been trying to reach her on Slack, but she's not on air right now.
Carole Namowicz: No, I don't know what's up because I G chatter and and nothing. So I don't know if she just didn't know that we were supposed to be in this channel or what the heck happened because obviously we just made that video this morning.
Carole Namowicz: Oh, we were talking plenty this morning. Um, so I'm not sure what happened there.
Carole Namowicz: I'm actually wondering if she was bouncing around looking at other people's I have no idea.
Jamie Lee - Staff: No.
Jamie Lee - Staff: Possibility. Yeah. Yes. Sally, but I don't think she's seen her either
Carole Namowicz: Okay, okay.
Jamie Lee - Staff: I'll just post in the chat and let people know the cameras open
Carole Namowicz: Sounds good.
Okay.
Carole Namowicz: We'll see if she helps in
Yeah.
Jamie Lee - Staff: It's getting pretty close to the
Carole Namowicz: Nine. I know.
Jamie Lee - Staff: I think will be in like a main room. Oh 1125
Okay.
Jamie Lee - Staff: Jordan brick is going to join us. She's one of our A's.
Jordan Brick: Hello.
Jordan Brick: My room is also empty. So, okay.
Carole Namowicz: Gotcha.
Jordan Brick: Other people's
Jamie Lee - Staff: Stuff. Yeah.
Carole Namowicz: You want to see anything or
Jordan Brick: Less. I would love to see here
Carole Namowicz: Oh, here I'll show you.
Jordan Brick: Let's see here.
I have it up here.
Carole Namowicz: I'm going to
Carole Namowicz: Hold on, I have to, I have to get the cool new one up for you guys.
Carole Namowicz: Which is here.
Carole Namowicz: So I just popped it here. So this is a simulation that women and Jamie are working on. So this is chemistry and this unit is based around the idea. I don't know if you've ever seen the can crush before you know I'm talking about
Carole Namowicz: Yes, no, maybe so.
Jordan Brick: Not sure.
Carole Namowicz: Hold on, I'm
Carole Namowicz: Here we go.
Carole Namowicz: Start. But that was the container halfway full advice and then add water all the way for
Carole Namowicz: About a tablespoon of the water to an aluminum cans and then please to scan.
Carole Namowicz: During the hot plate on high wait for students to be pointing out at
Carole Namowicz: This point your canvas ready to be uploaded. Remove the cam from the hot plate using top and then in one motion for the rest of the fluid and some worse the top of the candidate has water.
Carole Namowicz: Alright, so anyway, um, we have kids do this every year we do this demo first and they do as a major lab and this year is going to be so interesting.
Carole Namowicz: Where obviously they're not going to be able to physically do all these things in our lab this year at all.
Carole Namowicz: But it's really great learning tool for looking at pressure volume temperature number of particles, all of those things that contribute to
Carole Namowicz: Gas behavior. So what Jamie had been working on is, where is it is this cute little simulation where
Carole Namowicz: You can see here you. It starts with see inside clicked on. But you can click it off. So here's your can right and you can put it on the hot plate and let it get hot, and then take it over here.
Carole Namowicz: And it's supposed to crush. There we go. Crush can right. Yay. Um, but like that ended of itself. Great. You should have just, you know, looked at a video and
Carole Namowicz: We will of course be recording the actual can crushing ourselves, we just pulled a quick one off of YouTube, but we'll be doing it for the students.
Carole Namowicz: But if you go to see inside, then you can start with the actual view of what's going on inside the can, what's actually causing it to crush on, so that students will still be able to do this lab, there'll be able to collect data.
Carole Namowicz: So there'll be able to collect data on the deer. There'll be collecting is the percent crush.
Carole Namowicz: Um, so we're trying to make it so that they can still do this major lab that they do every year even though we're going to be remote
Carole Namowicz: But the other really helpful thing for us this year I'm all, not just this year with another helpful thing is very often when students really do this lab. They don't understand why they can crushes anyway.
Carole Namowicz: So we're hoping that in future years. They'll do the real thing in class and they do tons of trials because we have them actually manipulate a variable.
Carole Namowicz: But they'll be able to look at the microscopic version of what's going on here and be able to see
Carole Namowicz: What the particles were doing that ultimately caused the can to implode so that's that's the ultimate goal here is for them to explain it in terms of particle motion. And so this is just
Carole Namowicz: version that went and Jamie made within like a few days ago. Um, so it's just a jumping off point. They have to add a lot of
Carole Namowicz: Slider bars is variables like how long, how long you leave it on the hot plate that's just, you know, however long you're holding it there. But how much water would you put in the can to begin with, um,
Carole Namowicz: And how big the can is there's going to be a slider bar for that students are going to be able to change the
Carole Namowicz: The ice bucket to different temperatures as well. And then there's going to be an output for the percent crush of the cans, they're going to be able to say, See winds of the can crush or not and how much
Carole Namowicz: I don't think that the visual is going to look really anything different than this, except for a crushed can but
Carole Namowicz: It's still going to show if it crushes or not like will probably figure out some threshold Jamie for, like, when to show it crushed or not. I think that would be easy enough. But they'll get they'll get quantitative output. So
Carole Namowicz: Um, so when they're really doing this lab and you know hopefully in another year from now, then they'll be able to take this and compare
Carole Namowicz: What happened in the simulation to their actual data to see if my data good or not. And they'll also be able to see on a microscopic scale what the particles were doing that cause the can.
sugat dabholkar (he/him/his): To implode
Carole Namowicz: Anybody else questions or stuff or
sugat dabholkar (he/him/his): Yes. I mean, I just
sugat dabholkar (he/him/his): I just joined
Hi.
sugat dabholkar (he/him/his): This is Amit. I mean, so, so how are, how are you using the interactive stuff.
Carole Namowicz: Oh, you mean as far as the simulation goes
sugat dabholkar (he/him/his): Yes, it is.
Carole Namowicz: Okay, so this our unit is based around the can crushing you're familiar with the can crush you know what yeah so
Carole Namowicz: Students usually do this as a big major lab and they're not doing it this year, at least not the real thing, not in class, not with materials.
Carole Namowicz: So Wilmot and Jamie have made us the simulation so that students can still work through this, they can still collect data.
Carole Namowicz: But obviously, here we have this little see inside aspect. So if you click it off. You don't see the particles that are in the canvas. As soon as you do.
Carole Namowicz: You can see the particles that are going to be in the can. Now, we still need to add a ton of slider bars for the number of particles that start off in the can.
Carole Namowicz: The size of the can. And there's also going to be a slider bar for the temperature of the the ice bucket over here, but students will take a can leave it on hot plate and then they bring it over. There we go. They bring it over here and
Carole Namowicz: Crush.
Carole Namowicz: Whoa what's supposed to happen is, and I think we'll probably work on the particle speed as well. More but ultimately they should obviously see the particles get considerably slower. In fact, like slow down almost completely when we put it in the ice bucket.
Carole Namowicz: So we want them to make that connection with what the particles are doing throughout and ultimately why the can crushes but they're also going to be able to collect all this quantitative data.
Carole Namowicz: As if they were doing the lab, even though they're not going to be able to do the lab.
Carole Namowicz: But beyond just this year.
Carole Namowicz: Students, we always have them do this major lab beyond this year, they never really understand like not never but a lot of students don't understand what's happening throughout the lab and why the can crushes so
Carole Namowicz: They'll spend all this time taking real data with real cans after this year is over, fingers crossed, and
Carole Namowicz: They'll be able to mess with the simulation to help explain it because it's something they have to do in their lab report is go through and explain the entire process and why they can crushes
Carole Namowicz: And a lot of students just don't understand why the can crushes. So this will help them throughout the process to see why did the can crush.
Carole Namowicz: On so worth. We're seeing it as being useful well beyond this year.
Carole Namowicz: Um, so that will be able to use it in years to come to have students after they do this whole lab.
Carole Namowicz: There'll be able to sit and then we'll say, okay, now here's the simulation compare your data to the simulation. Do you think you got good data in class because the simulation will be like ideal data.
Carole Namowicz: And then they'll also say, and you can also use the simulation to help you explain what's occurring on a microscopic level.
sugat dabholkar (he/him/his): This is, this is amazing. I love it. This is like you gotta, you have doing both macroscopic and microscope in the same
Carole Namowicz: Room with idea. I really love it.
sugat dabholkar (he/him/his): Are you are you thinking about changing the the dimensions of the box. When you, when it crashes well
Carole Namowicz: Actually what we talked about specifically because we think that that would probably be pretty complicated.
Carole Namowicz: Is we're calling this a zoom in of the can. We're going to highlight. We're going to highlight a little square on the can.
Carole Namowicz: So that they can see where on the can. This is supposed to be representing the whole time. That way if they change the size of the can.
Carole Namowicz: The box in the center won't change, but they'll be able to see, oh, this is like a smaller part of the cam that's being represented now because the can itself is bigger. So that's something we talked about just yesterday, adding in
Katie Lindeman: Oh, sorry. I was just gonna say, I think if they if they start thinking that the box is the can, then that's a misinterpretation of how big gas particles are and that goes into some misconceptions that we're trying to
Carole Namowicz: Yeah, and it also the can itself to start off with is open and then it's closed, and I think trying to actually mimic the whole can frankly and Jamie could speak to this more than I could. But I imagine that that would be really complex
Carole Namowicz: In terms of having the volume like change shape and
Carole Namowicz: Size and all this stuff and like
Carole Namowicz: We're not going there. I just, I like this is our first unit of the year and we know that we're going to have to have it ready in like a month and a half and
Carole Namowicz: I think that that would be a really big asked
Carole Namowicz: To um
Carole Namowicz: So we, you know, I'm trying to keep our expectations realistic and all this. So,
Jamie Lee - Staff: It's already hard enough, trying to integrate. We basically reused and old particle simulation those already available in the library.
Jamie Lee - Staff: But
Jamie Lee - Staff: We should probably move on to the main room.
Carole Namowicz: All right.
sugat dabholkar (he/him/his): Thank you.
Jamie Lee - Staff: Thank you for joining us.
Carole Namowicz: Are we going back to the main room.
Jamie Lee - Staff: Yes, yes.
Katie Lindeman: Yes, sorry about being late. I
Katie Lindeman: Here's a king rat situation in my backyard.
Carole Namowicz: Sorry, I think everyone just saw that that G chat. I'm sorry, I forgot I was sharing the
Screen.
Katie Lindeman: Just fine.
Katie Lindeman: It's okay, it's
Carole Namowicz: Everything all right.
Katie Lindeman: Yeah, no, it's, it's, it's gonna be okay.
Okay.
Katie Lindeman: Yeah, exactly.
Katie Lindeman: Okay, so we're going, we're going back to the normal
Carole Namowicz: Room. Okay.
Katie Lindeman: All right. All right. Bye. Oh.
Okay.